the oceans have rhythms like the land
the most influential rhythm is something
the land doesn't have tides when the
moon is over the Pacific it pulls the
whole huge ocean towards it
tides govern the timing of our journey
and the nesting at the end of it
many sea animals can detect rising tides
with perfect accuracy a coral polyp has
created miniature moons each a bag of
eggs once a year on the same night
corals of a single species spawn
the seawater is so thick with plankton
and larvae that with just a pint of it
you could start a new reef colonize a
new sea mount or seed a new bait ball if
you look for hope you can find it here
the sea has an almost infinite ability
to regenerate
but is also extremely fragile the white
slabs along this reef are coral dead
coral some of the richest places on
earth are dying because of a degree or
two rise in temperature
the seas are also absorbing more carbon
dioxide making the water more acidic it
harder to grow your skeleton in acid
seas
you